# Payload and payload upgrading

Gurgle uses a protocol based on JSON, much like this:

```json
    {"stream": 1, "id": 5, "cmd": "message", "message": [{"text": "Hello world"}], "message_id": 0}
```

## Packet and packet length field

During a Gurgle session, continuous stream of JSON documents are being sent. Each JSON document is called a "Gurgle packet".

In order to minify corruption caused by malformed JSON, four bytes in Big Endian indicating the length of each JSON document MUST be sent at the beginning of a Gurgle packet.

## LZO Compression

Gurgle supports LZO compression.

A single compression dictionary is shared during a persist connection is used.

The client sends an "upgrade request" packet:

```json
    {"id": id, "upgrade": ["lzo"]}
```

Where `id` is a random number between 0 and 2147483647 chosen by the client.

The server SHOULD response with an "upgrade success" packet:

```json
    {"id": id, "upgraded": ["lzo"], "error": null}
```

Where `id` is the same value specified in the request packet.

After the reply packet, the client and the server immediately enables LZO compression and decompression feature.

Or, if the server does not support the feature or failed to enable that feature, it MUST response with an "upgrade failure" packet:

```json
    {"id": id, "upgraded": [], "error": "unsupported", "reason": "LZO compression is disabled on this server"}
```

## JKSN

Since JSON has a lot of overhead. JSON data MAY be preprocessed to JKSN, a binary format before compressing or transmitting.

JKSN specification is available at <https://github.com/m13253/JKSN>.

Gurgle uses JKSN without magic header. A single JKSN cache is shared during a persist connection is used.

JKSN MAY be used before compression.

A client supporting JKSN SHOULD send an "upgrade request" packet:

```json
    {"id": id, "upgrade": ["jksn"]}
```

The server SHOULD follow the response described above in the section "Compression".

When compression and JKSN is to be enabled at the same time, the `upgrade` field MAY contain `["jksn", "lzo"]`. Notice that `"jksn"` comes before `"lzo"`.

The following of this documentation uses JSON as demo. However, Gurgle implementations SHOULD prefer JKSN over JSON in real circumstances.
