# Connection establishment

A typical P2S connection consists of the following procedures:

- The client establishes a TCP/IP connection with TLS to the server
- The client sends its Gurgle protocol version, the server replies with its version.
- The client sends "upgrade request" packet and the server responds to it.
- The client requests authentication methods from 
- The client authenticates.
- The client requests roaster and updates contacts information.
- The client sends a presence packet.
- The server pushes offline messages to client. The client responds upon successful receiving.

Then the Gurgle session is set up and stand by.

## Version declaration

After the TLS connection is set up, the client MUST send a version declaration packet immediately:

```json
    {"id": id, "version": client_protocol_version}
```

The server MUST response a packet:

```json
    {"id": id, "version": server_protocol_version}
```

At the time of writing, `client_protocol_version` and `server_protocol_version` SHOULD be `"0.1"`.

## Authentication

The client first sends a packet requesting authentication methods from the server:

```json
    {"id": id_1, "cmd": "query", "query": "auth"}
```

The server MUST send a response packet:

```json
    {"id": id_1, "answer": ["plain"]}
```

Where `"plain"` indicates that the server supports plain-text password authentication method. Other authentication methods will be introduced later.

The client SHOULD then choose the most appropriate method that it supports.

In plain-text password authentication, the packet will be:

```json
    {"id": id_2, "cmd": "auth", "from": gurgle_id, "method": "plain", "password": password}
```

Where `gurgle_id` MUST be full or bare Gurgle ID. If it is a bare Gurgle ID, or a full Gurgle ID with an invalid "terminal" field, the server MUST correct it.

Upon successful authentication, the server MUST send a response packet:

```json
    {"id": id_2, "cmd": "to": full_gurgle_id, "error": null}
```

Where `full_gurgle_id` is the corrected full Gurgle ID.

Or, if the username does not exist or the password is incorrect.

```json
    {"id": id_2, "to": full_gurgle_id, "error": "password", "reason": "Incorrect username or password."}
```

For security reasons, the server should not inform the client of whether the username or the password is wrong.

Or, if the user account has been disabled or deactivated:

```json
    {"id": id, "to": full_gurgle_id, "error": "user_disable", "reason": "Your account has been disabled or deactivated."}
```

# // TODO
